feat(pxe): resolve tagging secret strategy via wallet hook (#24040)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs-developers/docs/aztec-nr/framework-description/note_delivery.md

- **Yes, but they cannot or prefer not to contact them offchain or you don't want to implement offchain delivery** Use `ONCHAIN_UNCONSTRAINED`
- **No, the sender might not deliver correctly** Use `ONCHAIN_CONSTRAINED`

## Tagging secret source

> Onchain delivery tags every message so the recipient can find it efficiently (see [note discovery](#note-discovery-and-the-sender) below). Computing a tag requires a secret shared between sender and recipient, and there is more than one way for the two parties to come to share it. When one has already been established for the pair, it is reused directly. Otherwise the wallet decides how to proceed, since it knows which secrets it holds and how it wants to reach the recipient.

Reviewer: >When one has already been established for the pair, it is reused directly

you mean when an onchain handshake exists, correct? not necessarily that _any_ shared secret has already been used, rather that one has been registered (an ecdh handshake would not be registered)

Author: You are right, I made it clearer

- **Yes, but they cannot or prefer not to contact them offchain or you don't want to implement offchain delivery** Use `ONCHAIN_UNCONSTRAINED`
- **No, the sender might not deliver correctly** Use `ONCHAIN_CONSTRAINED`

## Tagging secret strategy

Onchain delivery tags every message so the recipient can find it efficiently (see [note discovery](#note-discovery-and-the-sender) below). Computing a tag requires a secret shared between sender and recipient, and there is more than one way for the two parties to come to share it. When an onchain handshake has been registered for the pair, the secret derived from it is reused directly. Otherwise the wallet decides how to proceed, since it knows which secrets it holds and how it wants to reach the recipient.

> The wallet's answer is a **tagging secret strategy**: it expresses *which* secret to use, and the PXE performs any Diffie-Hellman key exchange and app-siloing before handing the ready-to-use secret to the contract. Wallets therefore never reimplement that derivation. There are three strategies today:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The wallet's answer is a **tagging secret strategy**: it expresses *which* secret to use, and if necessary, PXE performs a [Diffie-Hellman key exchange](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/computer-networks/diffie-hellman-key-exchange-and-perfect-forward-secrecy/)) and/or app-siloing before handing the ready-to-use secret to the contract. Wallets therefore never reimplement that derivation. There are three strategies today:
```
"any Diffie-Hellman key exchange" reads like there are multiple DH protocols we are choosing between. Would be nice still provide the link to external docs as well.

> - **Non-interactive handshake**: the secret comes from a handshake published onchain that the recipient can derive. This reveals information about the recipient, but lets them discover the message without any prior sender-recipient coordination. Works for both constrained and unconstrained delivery.

Reviewer 2: Feels like we should mention specifically what is revealed right?

Reviewer 2: I guess we mention "Onchain footprint when establishing" in the table below but I think that is also implied by the secret itself "from a handshake published onchain". Would be good to clarify what at most can be derived by someone who is not the actual recipient.

- **No, the sender might not deliver correctly** Use `ONCHAIN_CONSTRAINED`

## Delivery privacy preference

Onchain delivery tags every message so the recipient can find it efficiently (see [note discovery](#note-discovery-and-the-sender) below). Computing a tag requires a secret shared between sender and recipient. That secret can be derived in several ways, and the choice involves a privacy trade-off. Each party involved in message delivery owns a different part of the decision:

- **Contracts** choose a delivery mode, and can optionally pin a tag-secret derivation via the `MessageDelivery` builders. By default they pin nothing and delegate the decision to the wallet. This is the recommended setting unless the contract requires a specific mechanism to work.
- **Wallets** answer that delegation with the **delivery privacy preference**: a wallet-level setting with two values, **max privacy** and **best effort**. It decides how much privacy the user is willing to trade so that delivery works with less sender-recipient coordination.

The preference is consulted whenever a message needs a tagging secret and the contract has not pinned a derivation.

### Max privacy vs best effort

> - **Max privacy** (the PXE default): nothing that could link sender and recipient is ever published, and delivery relies on sender-recipient coordination. Unconstrained delivery uses a secret derived from the sender and recipient addresses, which leaves no onchain trace, but the recipient only finds the message if they registered the sender in their PXE. Constrained delivery requires an interactive handshake with the recipient, and fails when none exists, because there is no privacy-preserving way to establish a secret on the fly.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that 'fails' here clearly conveys that _the transaction_ will fail, not the delivery.

> - **Best effort**: tags are derived from a non-interactive handshake, reusing an existing one or establishing it onchain as part of the send. The recipient discovers the message without knowing the sender in advance or coordinating with them in any other way, at the cost of publishing a handshake that reveals information about the recipient.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about 'best effort' as a name. If someone had to ask themselves why not apply the 'best effort', they may incorrectly assume that the best effort requires _too much_ effort, e.g. slow proving times etc.

What this setting really means is 'it will always work, but there is some privacy leakage'. And 'max privacy' should also clearly convey that it may _not_ work.

Not sure what better names would be though. Perhaps 'max privacy' is ok, but 'best effort' definitely not. Maybe 'prefer privacy' and 'prefer success'?

Author: Ok, so two things to discuss: 
- The name "privacy preference"
- The names of the values. Currently MAX_PRIVACY and BEST_EFFORT

If we decide to keep "Privacy Preference", we could go with PREFER_MAX_PRIVACY vs PREFER_LESS_COORDINATION/PREFER_NO_COORDINATION

If we want to move to something like "Privacy Policy", we could go with MAX_PRIVACY vs COORDINATION_FREE/NO_COORDINATION

I'm leaning heavily towards being explicit for the lack of coordination needed between sender/recipient, since I think it's the main reason why someone would choose that option

Reviewer: Highlighting that there is no need for coordination is good - the main point of that one is that if you did _need_ coordination, then that opens up the space for coordination to somehow fail (e.g. unavailable or uncooperative counterparty), which in turn causes the tx the fail. That's what I was trying to go to with 'prefer success', the thing _must_ go through. A name along those lines might be better in the sense of coordination being a bit of an implementation detail, the key part is that you already have everything you need to not fail the tx.

Author: Ok, I see your point. What about:
"Privacy Preference" and `MAXIMIZE_PRIVACY/MAXIMIZE_DELIVERY`. Or `PRIORITIZE_PRIVACY/PRIORITIZE_DELIVERY`

| | Max privacy | Best effort |
|---|---|---|
| Onchain footprint when establishing a secret | None | A handshake revealing information about the recipient |
| Unconstrained delivery to an unknown recipient | Found only if the recipient registered the sender | Found without sender-recipient coordination |

> | Constrained delivery | Requires an interactive handshake signed by the recipient | Works without recipient involvement |

Reviewer: 'requires' might not convey that abesence of a handshake makes the transaction unprovable

### Configuring the preference

Wallets configure the preference through the `getDeliveryPrivacyPreference` [execution hook](../../foundational-topics/pxe/execution_hooks.md) when creating their PXE. The hook receives the message context (executing contract, sender, recipient and delivery mode), so a wallet can answer per message instead of with a fixed value.

The defaults differ by environment:

- **PXE**: max privacy. A bare PXE makes the conservative choice and never leaks without opt-in.

> - **Embedded wallet** (`@aztec/wallets/embedded`): best effort. It targets development scenarios where delivery working out of the box matters more than handshake privacy. Override it by passing your own `hooks.getDeliveryPrivacyPreference` in its `pxe` options.

Reviewer: `EmbeddedWallet` is not really a development wallet though, is it? We do use it in these environments, but we don't discourage users from using it in production environments. Should we perhaps have such an entity? @Thunkar

Author: Personally, I think we should default to MAX_PRIVACY on the `EmbeddedWallet` too. We can revisit it later based on community feedback, but I would start with all defaults being the same

Reviewer 3: `EmbeddedWallet` is definitely a production wallet. The thing is that its trust assumptions are different: it ships with an app, so there's implicit trust. In that sense, it should just do whatever the app wants to do since the privacy exposure is limited (your identity on that app is siloed to said app)

Author: But the privacy leak is not only about the sender. The leak is saying "this tx is sending a message to recipient X". So I think it still makes sense to try to avoid it by default

Reviewer: I agree with the max privacy default, but worry that dev environments would become clunky if based on that.

Author: What do you mean with dev environments? TXE? Because Grego just said that `EmbeddedWallet` is a production wallet. 

My main concern with making TXE use "best effort"/"prefer success" is that the same contract will:
- Work in Noir tests automatically
- Not work on e2e typescript tests
- Not work on prod

I would rather have them do: 
```
TestEnvironmentOptions::new().with_delivery_privacy_preference(DeliveryPrivacyPreference::best_effort())
```
so that they are 100% aware that the needed do to something "special" to make it work, and have it be explicit that they are accepting a tradeoff

> - **TXE tests**: max privacy, matching the bare PXE. Tests opt into best effort via `env.set_delivery_privacy_preference(DeliveryPrivacyPreference::best_effort())`.

Reviewer: This seems odd, why? Would these not match development preferences (i.e. what embedded wallet does)?

Author: I don't like when TXE and PXE differ too much. One of my first experiences with Aztec included something working on TXE but then not on PXE (due to scopes). That's why I wanted TXE to have the same default as PXE

The "sender" for note discovery is **not the contract calling `.deliver()`**. Instead, it's the **account contract** that initiated the transaction.

> When your wallet submits a transaction, it tells PXE which address to use as the sender for tags (typically the originating account). The tag recipients use to find their notes is computed from a secret shared between the sender and recipient, and there is [more than one way to establish that secret](#tagging-secret-source), chosen by the wallet. Contracts can override the sender at message delivery via the `with_sender` builder method, which works for both constrained and unconstrained delivery, e.g. `MessageDelivery::onchain_constrained().with_sender(address)`.

Author: Added more changes here (and the next file) so we can review most of the docs changes together. Otherwise, it will be very hard to review them incrementally

The "sender" for note discovery is **not the contract calling `.deliver()`**. Instead, it's the **account contract** that initiated the transaction.

> When your wallet submits a transaction, it tells PXE which address to use as the sender for tags (typically the originating account). The tag recipients use to find their notes is computed from a secret shared between the sender and recipient, and there is [more than one way to establish that secret](#tagging-secret-strategy), chosen by the wallet. Contracts can override the sender at message delivery via the `with_sender` builder method, which works for both constrained and unconstrained delivery, e.g. `MessageDelivery::onchain_constrained().with_sender(address)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When your wallet submits a transaction, it tells PXE which address to use as the sender for tags (typically the originating account). Recipients compute the tag to find their notes from a secret shared between the sender and recipient, and there is [more than one way to establish that secret](#tagging-secret-strategy), chosen by the wallet. Contracts can override the sender at message delivery via the `with_sender` builder method, which works for both constrained and unconstrained delivery, e.g. `MessageDelivery::onchain_constrained().with_sender(address)`.
```
nit: Found this to read a bit easier
